# Activity Overview

In this activity, you will review the details of a security incident and document the incident using your incident handler's journal. Previously, you learned about the importance of documentation in the incident response process. You've also learned how an incident handler's journal is used to record information about security incidents as they are handled. 

Throughout this course, you can apply your documentation skills using your incident handler's journal. With this journal, you can record information about the experiences you will have analyzing security incident scenarios through the course activities. 

By the time you complete this course you will have multiple entries in your incident handler's journal that you can use as a helpful reference to recall concepts and tools. Later, you'll add this document to your cybersecurity portfolio, which you can share with prospective employers or recruiters. To review the importance of building a professional portfolio and options for creating your portfolio, read 
Create a cybersecurity portfolio
. 

Be sure to complete this activity and answer the questions that follow before moving on. The next course item will provide you with a completed exemplar to compare to your own work. 

<b>Note</b>: You can use your incident handler's journal as a personal space where you can keep track of your learning journey as you learn about incident detection and response concepts and interact with different cybersecurity tools. Feel free to include your thoughts, reflections, and any other important details or information.
