# Incident Handler's Journal

**Date:** July 23, 2024  
**Entry:** #1  
**Description:** Documenting a cybersecurity incident  
**Tool(s) used:** None.

### The 5 W's
- **Who:** An organized group of unethical hackers  
- **What:** A ransomware security incident  
- **Where:** At a health care company  
- **When:** Tuesday 9:00 a.m.  
- **Why:** The incident happened because unethical hackers were able to access the company's systems using a phishing attack. After gaining access, the attackers launched their ransomware on the company's systems, encrypting critical files. The attackers' motivation appears to be financial because the ransom note they left demanded a large sum of money in exchange for the decryption key.

### Additional Notes
1. How could the health care company prevent an incident like this from occurring again?  
2. Should the company pay the ransom to retrieve the decryption key?

---

**Date:** July 20, 2022  
**Entry:** #2  
**Description:** Email Phishing Attempt  
**Tool(s) used:** Website - virustotal.com

| Ticket ID | Alert Message                                      | Severity | Details                                                      | Ticket status |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|
| A-2703    | SERVER-MAIL Phishing attempt possible download of malware | Medium   | The user may have opened a malicious email and opened attachments or clicked links. | Escalated     |

### Ticket comments
The alert detected that an employee downloaded and opened a malicious file from a phishing email. There is an inconsistency between the sender’s email address “76tguy6hh6tgftrt7tg.su’” the name used in the email body “Clyde West,” and the sender’s name, “Def Communications.” The email body and subject line contained grammatical errors. The email’s body also contained a password-protected attachment, “bfsvc.exe,” which was downloaded and opened on the affected machine. Having previously investigated the file hash, it is confirmed to be a known malicious file. Furthermore, the alert severity is reported as medium. With these findings, I chose to escalate this ticket to a level-two SOC analyst to take further action.

### Additional information
**Known malicious file hash:** 54e6ea47eb04634d3e87fd7787e2136ccfbcc80ade34f246a12cf93bab527f6b

### Email:
**From:** Def Communications <76tguyhh6tgftrt7tg.su>  <114.114.114.114>  
**Sent:** Wednesday, July 20, 2022 09:30:14 AM  
**To:** <hr@inergy.com> <176.157.125.93>  
**Subject:** Re: Infrastructure Egnieer role  

Dear HR at Ingergy,  

I am writing for to express my interest in the engineer role posted from the website.  

There is attached my resume and cover letter. For privacy, the file is password protected. Use the password paradise10789 to open.  

Thank you,  
Clyde West  
**Attachment:** filename="bfsvc.exe"

---
**Date:** December 28, 2022, at 7:20 p.m., PT  
**Entry:** #3  
**Description:** Ransom Demand  
**Tool(s) used:** None.

### The 5 W's
- **Who:** Ransomware Hacker  
- **What:** A ransomware security incident  
- **Where:** Commercial company employee  
- **When:** 3:13 p.m., PT, on December 22, 2022  
- **Why:** After gaining access using a forced browsing attack, the attackers launched was able to gain customer financial information. The attackers' motivation appears to be financial because the ransom note they left demanded a large sum of money in exchange for not releasing the information to the public.

# INCIDENT FINAL REPORT

## Executive summary

The organization experienced a security incident on December 28, 2022, at 7:20 p.m., PT, during which an individual was able to gain unauthorized access to customer personal identifiable information (PII) and financial information. Approximately 50,000 customer records were affected. The financial impact of the incident is estimated to be $100,000 in direct costs and potential loss of revenue. The incident is now closed and a thorough investigation has been conducted.

## Timeline

At approximately 3:13 p.m., PT, on December 22, 2022, an employee received an email from an external email address. The email sender claimed that they had successfully stolen customer data. In exchange for not releasing the data to public forums, the sender requested a $25,000 cryptocurrency payment. The employee assumed the email was spam and deleted it.
On December 28, 2022, the same employee received another email from the same sender. This email included a sample of the stolen customer data and an increased payment demand of $50,000. 
On the same day, the employee notified the security team, who began their investigation into the incident. Between December 28 and December 31, 2022, the security team concentrated on determining how the data was stolen and the extent of the theft.

## Investigation

The security team received the alert and traveled on-site to begin the investigation. 
The root cause of the incident was identified as a vulnerability in the e-commerce web application. This vulnerability allowed the attacker to perform a forced browsing attack and access customer transaction data by modifying the order number included in the URL string of a purchase confirmation page. This vulnerability allowed the attacker to access customer purchase confirmation pages, exposing customer data, which the attacker then collected and exfiltrated.
After confirming the web application vulnerability, the security team analyzed the web application access logs. The logs indicated that the attacker accessed the information of thousands of purchase confirmation pages.
Response and remediation
The organization collaborated with the public relations department to disclose the data breach to its customers. Additionally, the organization offered free identity protection services to customers affected by the incident. 
After the security team reviewed the associated web server logs, the cause of the attack was very clear. There was a single log source showing an exceptionally high volume of sequentially listed customer orders.

## Recommendations

To prevent future recurrences, we are taking the following actions:
- ●	Perform routine vulnerability scans and penetration testing.
- ●	Implement the following access control mechanisms:
- - ○	Implement allowlisting to allow access to a specified set of URLs and automatically block all requests outside of this URL range.
- - ○	Ensure that only authenticated users are authorized access to content.

---

## Date: July 25, 2024  
**Entry:** #4  
**Description:** Analyzing a packet capture file  
**Tool(s) used:** For this activity, I used Wireshark to analyze a packet capture file. Wireshark is a network protocol analyzer that uses a graphical user interface. The value of Wireshark in cybersecurity is that it allows security analysts to capture and analyze network traffic. This can help in detecting and investigating malicious activity.  
**The 5 W's:**  
- **Who:** N/A  
- **What:** N/A  
- **Where:** N/A  
- **When:** N/A  
- **Why:** N/A
  
**Additional notes:** I've never used Wireshark before, so I was excited to begin this exercise and analyze a packet capture file. I can see why it's such a powerful tool for understanding network traffic.

---

## Date: July 25, 2024  
**Entry:** #5  
**Description:** Capturing my first packet  
**Tool(s) used:** For this activity, I used tcpdump to capture and analyze network traffic. Tcpdump is a network protocol analyzer that's accessed using the command-line interface. Similar to Wireshark, the value of tcpdump in cybersecurity is that it allows security analysts to capture, filter, and analyze network traffic.  
**The 5 W's:**  
- **Who:** N/A  
- **What:** N/A  
- **Where:** N/A  
- **When:** N/A  
- **Why:** N/A
  
**Additional notes:** I'm still new to using the command-line interface, so using it to capture and filter network traffic was a challenge. I got stuck a couple of times because I used the wrong commands. But after carefully following the instructions and redoing some steps, I was able to get through this activity and capture network traffic.

---

## Date: July 27, 2024  
**Entry:** #6  
**Description:** Investigate a suspicious file hash  
**Tool(s) used:** For this activity, I used VirusTotal, which is an investigative tool that analyzes files and URLs for malicious content such as viruses, worms, trojans, and more. It's a very helpful tool to use if you want to quickly check if an indicator of compromise like a website or file has been reported as malicious by others in the cybersecurity community. For this activity, I used VirusTotal to analyze a file hash, which was reported as malicious.  

This incident occurred in the Detection and Analysis phase. The scenario put me in the place of a security analyst at a SOC investigating a suspicious file hash. After the suspicious file was detected by the security systems in place, I had to perform deeper analysis and investigation to determine if the alert signified a real threat.  
**The 5 W's:**  
- **Who:** An unknown malicious actor  
- **What:** An email sent to an employee contained a malicious file attachment with the SHA-256 file hash of `54e6ea47eb04634d3e87fd7787e2136ccfbcc80ade34f246a12cf93bab527f6b`  
- **Where:** An employee's computer at a financial services company  
- **When:** At 1:20 p.m., an alert was sent to the organization's SOC after the intrusion detection system detected the file  
- **Why:** An employee was able to download and execute a malicious file attachment via e-mail.
  
**Additional notes:** How can this incident be prevented in the future? Should we consider improving security awareness training so that employees are careful with what they click on?

---
