# Perform the risk assessment

## Step 1. Explain The Purpose Of The Information System

Use the NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1 resource to complete this activity.

Once you have reviewed the system description and scope, you will write a purpose statement. The purpose section helps stakeholders understand the underlying objective and intended outcome of your analysis. A purpose statement also connects the technical objectives of your analysis with the organization's goals.

Consider what you know about the server:
* *How is the database server valuable to the business?*
* *Why is it important for the business to secure the data on the server?*
* *How might the server impact the business if it were disabled?*

In the **Purpose** section of the report, use the questions provided and write **3-5 sentences** (60-100 words) describing the reason(s) for conducting this vulnerability analysis.
 
## Step 2. Identify Potential Threat Sources

Explore the *Threat sources* section of the *NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1* resource. Using what you know about the vulnerable database server, notice the threat types and examples described.

In the **Threat Source** column of the Risk Assessment table of your template, **identify three** potential threats. Choose the threats based on the information you have gathered from the system description, scope, purpose, and *NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1* resource.
 
## Step 3. Identify Potential Threat Events

*NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1* provides a comprehensive list of possible security events that could compromise a vulnerable information system — labelled *Threat events*. This list covers what attackers from different groups typically try to achieve and how good they are at it. For example, a business competitor might have the technical capabilities needed to conduct a denial-of-service attack.

Explore the *Threat events* section in the resource. Then, **identify three** threat events that could be initiated based on the threat sources you identified. Write the three threat events in the **Threat Event** column of the Risk Assessment table in your template.
 
## Step 4. Calculate The Risk Of Potential Threats

You may recall from an earlier reading about calculating risks that potential threats and vulnerabilities are important factors to think about when evaluating the security of an asset.

Refer to the likelihood and severity sections of the *NIST SP 800-30 Rev. 1* resource and ask yourself the following questions about each threat that you identified earlier:
* *How frequently could this happen?*
* *Would critical business functions be impacted?*
* *How might this affect the business and its customers?*

Then, estimate a Likelihood score (1-3) and Severity score (1-3) for each threat and add your scores to the corresponding columns of the Risk Assessment table in your template. After that, calculate an overall Risk score (1-9) for each threat using the formula (likelihood x severity = risk).

Note: The number of rows in a risk table can vary depending on the complexity and scope of the assessment. In general, it should provide stakeholders with a comprehensive overview of all significant risks.
